Census  A statistical area delineated locally specifically for the tabulation of Census Bureau data (census designated place, census county division, unorganized territory, various types of American Indian/Alaska Native statistical areas). Distinct from Civil and Populated Place.
Civil   A political division formed for administrative purposes (borough, county, incorporated place, municipio, parish, town, township). Distinct from Census and Populated Place.
Populated Place Place or area with clustered or scattered buildings and a permanent human population (city, settlement, town, village). A populated place is usually not incorporated and by definition has no legal boundaries. However, a populated place may have a corresponding "civil" record, the legal boundaries of which may or may not coincide with the perceived populated place. Distinct from Census and Civil classes.
Locale  Place at which there is or was human activity; it does not include populated places, mines, and dams (battlefield, crossroad, camp, farm, ghost town, landing, railroad siding, ranch, ruins, site, station, windmill).



Reserve A tract of land set aside for a specific use (does not include forests, civil divisions, parks).
Forest  Bounded area of woods, forest, or grassland under the administration of a political agency (see "woods") (national forest, national grasslands, State forest).
Park    Place or area set aside for recreation or preservation of a cultural or natural resource and under some form of government administration; not including National or State forests or Reserves (national historical landmark, national park, State park, wilderness area).



Cemetery    A place or area for burying the dead (burial, burying ground, grave, memorial garden).



Building    A manmade structure with walls and a roof for protection of people and (or) materials, but not including church, hospital, or school.
Church  Building used for religious worship (chapel, mosque, synagogue, tabernacle, temple).
Hospital    Building where the sick or injured may receive medical or surgical attention (infirmary).
School  Building or group of buildings used as an institution for study, teaching, and learning (academy, college, high school, university).
Post Office An official facility of the U.S. Postal Service used for processing and distributing mail and other postal material.

Dam     Water barrier or embankment built across the course of a stream or into a body of water to control and (or) impound the flow of water (breakwater, dike, jetty).
Bridge  Manmade structure carrying a trail, road, or other transportation system across a body of water or depression (causeway, overpass, trestle).
Tower   A manmade structure, higher than its diameter, generally used for observation, storage, or electronic transmission.


Airport Manmade facility maintained for the use of aircraft (airfield, airstrip, landing field, landing strip).
Military    Place or facility used for various aspects of or relating to military activity.


Mine    Place or area from which commercial minerals are or were removed from the Earth; not including oilfield (pit, quarry, shaft).
Oilfield    Area where petroleum is or was removed from the Earth.
Well    Manmade shaft or hole in the Earth's surface used to obtain fluid or gaseous materials.



Crossing    A place where two or more routes of transportation form a junction or intersection (overpass, underpass).

Trail   Route for passage from one point to another; does not include roads or highways (jeep trail, path, ski trail).



Arch    Natural arch-like opening in a rock mass (bridge, natural bridge, sea arch).
Cave    Natural underground passageway or chamber, or a hollowed out cavity in the side of a cliff (cavern, grotto).
Tunnel  Linear underground passageway open at both ends.
Lava    Formations resulting from the consolidation of molten rock on the surface of the Earth (kepula, lava flow).
Pillar  Vertical, standing, often spire-shaped, natural rock formation (chimney, monument, pinnacle, pohaku, rock tower).

Flat    Relative level area within a region of greater relief (clearing, glade, playa).
Plain   A region of general uniform slope, comparatively level and of considerable extent (grassland, highland, kula, plateau, upland).
Woods   Small area covered with a dense growth of trees; does not include an area of trees under the administration of a political agency (see "forest").

Basin   Natural depression or relatively low area enclosed by higher land (amphitheater, cirque, pit, sink).
Bench   Area of relatively level land on the flank of an elevation such as a hill, ridge, or mountain where the slope of the land rises on one side and descends on the opposite side (level).
Cliff   Very steep or vertical slope (bluff, crag, head, headland, nose, palisades, precipice, promontory, rim, rimrock).
Crater  Circular-shaped depression at the summit of a volcanic cone or one on the surface of the land caused by the impact of a meteorite; a manmade depression caused by an explosion (caldera, lua).
Gap     Low point or opening between hills or mountains or in a ridge or mountain range (col, notch, pass, saddle, water gap, wind gap).
Range   Chain of hills or mountains; a somewhat linear, complex mountainous or hilly area (cordillera, sierra).
Ridge   Elevation with a narrow, elongated crest which can be part of a hill or mountain (crest, cuesta, escarpment, hogback, lae, rim, spur).
Slope   A gently inclined part of the Earth's surface (grade, pitch).
Summit  Prominent elevation rising above the surrounding level of the Earth's surface; does not include pillars, ridges, or ranges (ahu, berg, bald, butte, cerro, colina, cone, cumbre, dome, head, hill, horn, knob, knoll, mauna, mesa, mesita, mound, mount, mountain, peak, puu, rock, sugarloaf, table, volcano).
Valley  Linear depression in the Earth's surface that generally slopes from one end to the other (barranca, canyon, chasm, cove, draw, glen, gorge, gulch, gulf, hollow, ravine).

Bar     Natural accumulation of sand, gravel, or alluvium forming an underwater or exposed embankment (ledge, reef, sandbar, shoal, spit).
Beach   The sloping shore along a body of water that is washed by waves or tides and is usually covered by sand or gravel (coast, shore, strand).
Cape    Projection of land extending into a body of water (lea, neck, peninsula, point).
Island  Area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low wetland (archipelago, atoll, cay, hammock, hummock, isla, isle, key, moku, rock).
Isthmus Narrow section of land in a body of water connecting two larger land areas.
Levee   Natural or manmade embankment flanking a stream (bank, berm).

Arroyo  Watercourse or channel through which water may occasionally flow (coulee, draw, gully, wash).
Bay     Indentation of a coastline or shoreline enclosing a part of a body of water; a body of water partly surrounded by land (arm, bight, cove, estuary, gulf, inlet, sound).
Bend    Curve in the course of a stream and (or) the land within the curve; a curve in a linear body of water (bottom, loop, meander).
Canal   Manmade waterway used by watercraft or for drainage, irrigation, mining, or water power (ditch, lateal).
Channel Linear deep part of a body of water through which the main volume of water flows and is frequently used as aroute for watercraft (passage, reach, strait, thoroughfare, throughfare).
Falls   Perpendicular or very steep fall of water in the course of a stream (cascade, cataract, waterfall).
Glacier Body or stream of ice moving outward and downslope from an area of accumulation; an area of relatively permanent snow or ice on the top or side of a mountain or mountainous area (icefield, ice patch, snow patch).
Gut     Relatively small coastal waterway connecting larger bodies of water or other waterways (creek, inlet, slough).
Harbor  Sheltered area of water where ships or other watercraft can anchor or dock (hono, port, roads, roadstead).
Lake    Natural body of inland water (backwater, lac, lagoon, laguna, pond, pool, resaca, waterhole).
Rapids  Fast-flowing section of a stream, often shallow and with exposed rock or boulders (riffle, ripple).
Reservoir   Artificially impounded body of water (lake, tank).
Sea     Large body of salt water (gulf, ocean).
Spring  Place where underground water flows naturally to the surface of the Earth (seep).
Stream  Linear body of water flowing on the Earth's surface (anabranch, awawa, bayou, branch, brook, creek, distributary, fork, kill, pup, rio, river, run, slough).
Swamp   Poorly drained wetland, fresh or saltwater, wooded or grassy, possibly covered with open water (bog, cienega, marais, marsh, pocosin).



Area    Any one of several areally extensive natural features not included in other categories (badlands, barren, delta, fan, garden).



Unknown This class is assigned to legacy data only. It will not be assigned to new or edited records.
